notebooks/README.md, before:

# Medical Article Classification Project

This project provides a machine learning solution for classifying medical articles into different categories using transformer-based models. The system consists of two main components: a training module and a testing module.

## Pre-requist
Since these notebooks are run and trained in Google Colab, the following recommendations should be considered:

1. Use a GPU session, as it dramatically improves the training process.
2. The training files are located in data/raw/challenge_data.csv which must be uploaded to Google Colab
3. The entire workflow should be run exactly as it appears in the notebooks
In the line for publishing the model to the hub, you must have a token, which only the space owner can provide


## 📖 Usage

### Training Model

The training process involves preparing and training a transformer model on medical article data.

#### Step 1: Prepare Training Data

Ensure your training data is in the correct format:
- CSV file with columns: `title`, `abstract`, `label`
- Labels should be one of: `neurological`, `hepatorenal`, `cardiovascular`, `oncological`

- preprocessing: Basic dataset cleaning was performed, including removing special characters and converting everything to lowercase.

#### Step 2: Run Training

the model was trained by distilling a larger model called BioBert. For this case, techniques were used that allowed us to avoid the following:

Overfitting
Catastrophic Forgetting
For this, the model was adjusted with fine-tuning techniques such as (PEFT), and in particular LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation), since LoRA works by freezing all the weights of the pre-trained model and adding small "adapter" matrices of low rank in certain layers (usually the attention layers). Only the parameters of these adapter matrices are trained, which are a tiny fraction of the total (often <1%).

Parameters used:
r=16, # Rank of adaptation matrices
lora_alpha=32, # Scaling factor
lora_dropout=0.1,
bias="none",
task_type=TaskType.SEQ_CLS # Specify task type

This configuration (r=16, alpha=32, dropout=0.1) allowed finding a sufficient point to leverage BioBert's complex medical pattern capabilities and regularization that prevents overfitting on small datasets.
Result: 90% accuracy and ROC-AUC of 0.923 using only 0.3% extra parameters.

The model was trained for 10 epochs.

#### Step 3: Metrics Training

Since this challenge focuses on multi-label classification (multiple labels per text), the following metrics were implemented:

Accuracy: To calculate the percentage of correct labels
F1-Micro: Global average, gives more weight to frequent classes
F1-Macro: Average per class, treats all equally
ROC-AUC Macro: Measures how well it separates positives from negatives per class

Since in the medical environment a balance with F1-macro is needed, it ensures not to ignore rare diseases, while AUC tells you how reliable the model is at discriminating.

### Testing Model

the model was trained with some separately created data, obtaining output similar to this:

--- Article 5 ---
Title: guillain-barre syndrome pathways in leukemia
Abstract: Hypothesis: statins improves stroke outcomes via migraine pathways. Methods: cross-sectional trial with 285 adult population, measuring astrocytoma an...
Classifications:
  1. neurological: 0.9393 (78.9%)
  2. oncological: 0.1215 (12.2%)
  3. hepatorenal: 0.1122 (11.2%)

Commit message:

Add: PDF read endpoint in the API for extracting titles and abstracts from PDF files. Add: a new Makefile target for branch updates using a script. Add: AI LLM inference to analyce the PDF file and extract title and abstract. Update: `install:all` command in `package.json` to fix client installation (no --force needed). Change: refactored the client classification service to utilize the new PDF read endpoint. Add: Enhanced the Docker configuration with additional environment variables for model configuration. Fix: Updated Nginx configuration to streamline API requests with port 3000 and "/api" prefix. Change: Improved README documentation for clarity and added usage instructions. Remove: unused raw data directory and added new utility functions for file handling.

notebooks/README.md, after:

# Medical Article Classification Project

This project provides a machine learning solution for classifying medical articles into different categories using transformer-based models. The system consists of two main components: a training module and a testing module.

## Pre-requisites

Since these notebooks are run and trained in Google Colab, the following recommendations should be considered:

1. Use a GPU session, as it dramatically improves the training process.
2. The training files are located in data/raw/challenge_data.csv which must be uploaded to Google Colab.
3. The entire workflow should be run exactly as it appears in the notebooks.
4. In the line for publishing the model to the Hugging Face hub, you must have a token (HF_TOKEN environment variable), which only the space owner can provide.

## 📖 Usage

### Training Model

The training process involves preparing and training a transformer model on medical article data.

#### Step 1: Prepare Training Data

Ensure your training data is in the correct format:

- CSV file with columns: `title`, `abstract`, `label`
- Labels should be one of: `neurological`, `hepatorenal`, `cardiovascular`, `oncological`
- Preprocessing: Basic dataset cleaning was performed, including removing special characters and converting everything to lowercase.

#### Step 2: Run Training

The model was trained by distilling a larger model called BioBert. For this case, techniques were used that allowed us to avoid the following:

- Overfitting
- Catastrophic Forgetting

For this reason, the model was adjusted with fine-tuning techniques such as (PEFT), and in particular LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation), since LoRA works by freezing all the weights of the pre-trained model and adding small "adapter" matrices of low rank in certain layers (usually the attention layers). Only the parameters of these adapter matrices are trained, which are a tiny fraction of the total (often <1%).

Parameters used:
- r=16, # Rank of adaptation matrices
- lora_alpha=32, # Scaling factor
- lora_dropout=0.1,
- bias="none",
- task_type=TaskType.SEQ_CLS # Specify task type

This configuration (r=16, alpha=32, dropout=0.1) allowed finding a sufficient point to leverage BioBert's complex medical pattern capabilities and regularization that prevents overfitting on small datasets.
Result: 90% accuracy and ROC-AUC of 0.923 using only 0.3% extra parameters.

The model was trained for 10 epochs.

#### Step 3: Metrics Training

Since this challenge focuses on multi-label classification (multiple labels per text), the following metrics were implemented:

- Accuracy: To calculate the percentage of correct labels
- F1-Micro: Global average, gives more weight to frequent classes
- F1-Macro: Average per class, treats all equally
- ROC-AUC Macro: Measures how well it separates positives from negatives per class

Since in the medical environment a balance with F1-macro is needed, it ensures not to ignore rare diseases, while AUC tells you how reliable the model is at discriminating.

### Testing Model

The model was trained with some separately created data, obtaining output similar to this:

```
--- Article 5 ---
Title: guillain-barre syndrome pathways in leukemia
Abstract: Hypothesis: statins improves stroke outcomes via migraine pathways.
Methods: cross-sectional trial with 285 adult population, measuring astrocytoma an...
Classifications:
  1. neurological: 0.9393 (78.9%)
  2. oncological: 0.1215 (12.2%)
  3. hepatorenal: 0.1122 (11.2%)
```
