mcp-server/README.md, before:

# AbstractGo MCP Server

![AbstractGo MCP Server banner](./assets/abstractgo.mcp.server.banner.010.jpeg)

A Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that exposes the AbstractGo biomedical article classification API to AI clients like Claude Desktop, VS Code, and other MCP-compatible applications.

## Features

This MCP server provides comprehensive biomedical article classification and analysis capabilities:

### 🔐 User Authentication
- `get_api_keys`: Get API keys from environment
- `mcp_authentication_tool`: Authenticate user with API key

### 📊 Model Training & Metrics
- `mcp_training_metrics`: Get training metrics for the model
- `mcp_ai_model_params`: Get AI model parameters

### 🔬 Article Classification
- `mcp_predict`: Predict categories for biomedical articles
- `mcp_pdfread`: Read PDF files and extract title/abstract

### 📈 Dashboard Analytics
- `mcp_dashboard_metrics`: Get dashboard metrics
- `mcp_dashboard_confusion_matrix`: Get confusion matrix
- `mcp_dashboard_performance`: Get performance metrics
- `mcp_dashboard_distribution`: Get distribution analysis
- `mcp_dashboard_analytics`: Get analytics data
- `mcp_dashboard_classification_history`: Get classification history

### 🛠️ System & Health
- `mcp_read_root`: Get root endpoint information
- `mcp_health`: Health check endpoint
- `mcp_get_assets`: Get assets from local filesystem

### 📂 Resources
- `user://login/{api_key}`: User login data
- `api://root`: Root endpoint data
- `api://training-metrics`: Training metrics data
- `api://health`: Health status data
- `api://ai-model-params`: AI model parameters
- `dashboard://metrics`: Dashboard metrics
- `dashboard://confusion-matrix`: Confusion matrix
- `dashboard://performance`: Performance metrics
- `dashboard://distribution`: Distribution analysis
- `dashboard://analytics`: Analytics data
- `dashboard://classification-history`: Classification history

## Installation

1. **Clone the repository:**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/tomkat-cr/abstractgo.git
```

2. **Install Python dependencies:**
```bash
cd abstractgo/mcp-server
make install
```

3. **Run the server:**

**Start the MCP server:**
```bash
make run
```

**Start the MCP server with the MCP Inspector:**
```bash
make run-mcp-inspector
```

## MCP Client Configuration

### Claude Desktop

Add this configuration to your `claude_desktop_config.json` to run it locally:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "abstractgo": {
      "command": "sh",
      "args": [
        "/absolute/path/to/abstractgo/mcp-server/run_mcp_server.sh"
      ],
      "env": {
        "AG_API_KEY": "ag-api-key-123"
      }
    }
  }
}
```


To run the local live version, use the following configuration:
```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "abstractgo": {
      "url": "http://localhost:8070/mcp",
      "headers": {
        "AG_API_KEY": "ag-api-key-123"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### VS Code MCP Extension

Add to your VS Code settings or `.vscode/mcp.json`:

```json
{
  "mcp": {
    "servers": {
      "abstractgo": {
        "command": "sh",
        "args": [
          "/absolute/path/to/abstractgo/mcp-server/run_mcp_server.sh"
        ],
        "env": {
          "AG_API_KEY": "ag-api-key-123"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

NOTE: Set the `AG_API_KEY` environment variable to your AbstractGo API key in the server's `env` section.

## Usage Examples

Once connected to an MCP client, you can interact with the server using natural language:

### Basic Operations
- "Authenticate me with my API key"
- "Get the training metrics for the model"
- "Predict categories for this biomedical article"
- "Show me the dashboard performance metrics"

### Article Classification
- "Read this PDF and classify the article"
- "Predict the category for this title and abstract"
- "Get the confusion matrix for model performance"

### Dashboard Analytics
- "Show me the distribution analysis"
- "Get the classification history"
- "Display the current dashboard metrics"

## Architecture

The server is built using:
- **FastMCP**: Modern Python MCP framework for rapid development
- **Pydantic**: Data validation and serialization
- **AsyncIO**: Asynchronous operations for better performance

### Data Models
The server integrates with AbstractGo's biomedical article classification system, supporting:
- Article classification with title and abstract
- PDF document processing
- Model performance metrics and analytics
- Dashboard data visualization

### API Integration
The MCP server acts as a bridge to the AbstractGo API, providing:
- Authentication and API key management
- Direct access to model endpoints
- Real-time dashboard data
- File processing capabilities

## Development

### Extending the Server
To add new tools, create functions decorated with `@mcp.tool()`:

```python
@mcp.tool()
async def my_new_tool(params: MyModel) -> Dict[str, Any]:
    """Description of what this tool does"""
    # Implementation
    return {"success": True, "data": result}
```

### Adding Resources
To add new resources, use the `@mcp.resource()` decorator:

```python
@mcp.resource("mydata://endpoint")
async def my_resource() -> str:
    """Get my data as a resource"""
    data = await get_my_data()
    return json.dumps(data, indent=2)
```

## Transport Modes

Currently supports:
- **STDIO**: Standard input/output for local clients (default)
- **Future**: HTTP/SSE transport for remote clients (planned)

## Logging

The server provides detailed logging for debugging and monitoring:
- Tool invocations and parameters
- Data validation errors
- API integration operations
- Performance metrics

## License

This MCP server follows the MIT [LICENSE](./LICENSE), as the AbstractGo project.

Commit message:

Update README to clarify MCP server configuration and usage notes. Remove: the instructions to use the MCP server as SSE has benn hidden until the fix is done

mcp-server/README.md, after:

# AbstractGo MCP Server

![AbstractGo MCP Server banner](./assets/abstractgo.mcp.server.banner.010.jpeg)

A Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that exposes the AbstractGo biomedical article classification API to AI clients like Claude Desktop, VS Code, and other MCP-compatible applications.

## Features

This MCP server provides comprehensive biomedical article classification and analysis capabilities:

### 🔐 User Authentication
- `get_api_keys`: Get API keys from environment
- `mcp_authentication_tool`: Authenticate user with API key

### 📊 Model Training & Metrics
- `mcp_training_metrics`: Get training metrics for the model
- `mcp_ai_model_params`: Get AI model parameters

### 🔬 Article Classification
- `mcp_predict`: Predict categories for biomedical articles
- `mcp_pdfread`: Read PDF files and extract title/abstract

### 📈 Dashboard Analytics
- `mcp_dashboard_metrics`: Get dashboard metrics
- `mcp_dashboard_confusion_matrix`: Get confusion matrix
- `mcp_dashboard_performance`: Get performance metrics
- `mcp_dashboard_distribution`: Get distribution analysis
- `mcp_dashboard_analytics`: Get analytics data
- `mcp_dashboard_classification_history`: Get classification history

### 🛠️ System & Health
- `mcp_read_root`: Get root endpoint information
- `mcp_health`: Health check endpoint
- `mcp_get_assets`: Get assets from local filesystem

### 📂 Resources
- `user://login/{api_key}`: User login data
- `api://root`: Root endpoint data
- `api://training-metrics`: Training metrics data
- `api://health`: Health status data
- `api://ai-model-params`: AI model parameters
- `dashboard://metrics`: Dashboard metrics
- `dashboard://confusion-matrix`: Confusion matrix
- `dashboard://performance`: Performance metrics
- `dashboard://distribution`: Distribution analysis
- `dashboard://analytics`: Analytics data
- `dashboard://classification-history`: Classification history

## Installation

1. **Clone the repository:**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/tomkat-cr/abstractgo.git
```

2. **Install Python dependencies:**
```bash
cd abstractgo/mcp-server
make install
```

3. **Run the server:**

**Start the MCP server:**
```bash
make run
```

**Start the MCP server with the MCP Inspector:**
```bash
make run-mcp-inspector
```

## MCP Client Configuration

### Claude Desktop

Add this configuration to your `claude_desktop_config.json` to run it locally:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "abstractgo": {
      "command": "sh",
      "args": [
        "/absolute/path/to/abstractgo/mcp-server/run_mcp_server.sh"
      ],
      "env": {
        "AG_API_KEY": "ag-api-key-123"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

<!--
To run the local live version, use the following configuration:
```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "abstractgo": {
      "url": "http://localhost:8070/mcp",
      "headers": {
        "AG_API_KEY": "ag-api-key-123"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
-->
### VS Code MCP Extension

Add to your VS Code settings or `.vscode/mcp.json`:

```json
{
  "mcp": {
    "servers": {
      "abstractgo": {
        "command": "sh",
        "args": [
          "/absolute/path/to/abstractgo/mcp-server/run_mcp_server.sh"
        ],
        "env": {
          "AG_API_KEY": "ag-api-key-123"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

NOTES:
- Set the `AG_API_KEY` environment variable to your AbstractGo API key in the server's `env` section.
- When you configure the MCP server in clientes like VS Code, Cursor or Claude Desktop, you must do the [installation](#installation) step but the server doesn't need to be started.

## Usage Examples

Once connected to an MCP client, you can interact with the server using natural language:

### Basic Operations
- "Authenticate me with my API key"
- "Get the training metrics for the model"
- "Predict categories for this biomedical article"
- "Show me the dashboard performance metrics"

### Article Classification
- "Read this PDF and classify the article"
- "Predict the category for this title and abstract"
- "Get the confusion matrix for model performance"

### Dashboard Analytics
- "Show me the distribution analysis"
- "Get the classification history"
- "Display the current dashboard metrics"

## Architecture

The server is built using:
- **FastMCP**: Modern Python MCP framework for rapid development
- **Pydantic**: Data validation and serialization
- **AsyncIO**: Asynchronous operations for better performance

### Data Models
The server integrates with AbstractGo's biomedical article classification system, supporting:
- Article classification with title and abstract
- PDF document processing
- Model performance metrics and analytics
- Dashboard data visualization

### API Integration
The MCP server acts as a bridge to the AbstractGo API, providing:
- Authentication and API key management
- Direct access to model endpoints
- Real-time dashboard data
- File processing capabilities

## Development

### Extending the Server
To add new tools, create functions decorated with `@mcp.tool()`:

```python
@mcp.tool()
async def my_new_tool(params: MyModel) -> Dict[str, Any]:
    """Description of what this tool does"""
    # Implementation
    return {"success": True, "data": result}
```

### Adding Resources
To add new resources, use the `@mcp.resource()` decorator:

```python
@mcp.resource("mydata://endpoint")
async def my_resource() -> str:
    """Get my data as a resource"""
    data = await get_my_data()
    return json.dumps(data, indent=2)
```

## Transport Modes

Currently supports:
- **STDIO**: Standard input/output for local clients (default)
- **Future**: HTTP/SSE transport for remote clients (planned)

## Logging

The server provides detailed logging for debugging and monitoring:
- Tool invocations and parameters
- Data validation errors
- API integration operations
- Performance metrics

## License

This MCP server follows the MIT [LICENSE](./LICENSE), as the AbstractGo project.
